this video was made possible by
brilliant learn with brilliance for 20%
off by being one of the first 200 sign
up at brilliant star org /h AI you know
would make a bad video 101 what's the
longest border in the world because it's
this one the us-canada border done you
know what would make a slightly less bad
video one on what's the shortest border
in the world since the answer is a bit
more complicated
alright let's beat that bush or around
it or something there are plenty of
small countries with short borders such
as Monaco which shares a 2.7 mile 4.4
kilometer long border with France and
the Vatican which shares a two mile 3.2
kilometer with Italy but there are
bigger countries that share shorter
borders such as the UK and Spain of
course the British Isles are nowhere
near Spain but the British territory on
the Iberian Peninsula is despite how it
may look I'm not talking about Malaga
I'm talking about Gibraltar the British
overseas territory shares a 0.8 mile 1.2
kilometer border with Spain which is not
the shortest international border in the
world down in Africa there exists a
pretty unique border where Botswana
Zimbabwe Zambia and Namibia come close
to forming the only place on earth where
four countries need at one point in the
past it was thought that this was maybe
a Quadra point but nobody was really
sure many of the post-colonial era
borders were not super well defined
right here at this point Namibia which
was controlled by South Africa at the
time said the border was a quadruped
with four countries meaning at one point
while Botswana said the border looked
like this with them having a tiny little
border in the Zambezi River with Zambia
which was important to them since there
was a ferry across the river which
served as the only direct connection
between the two countries if the border
date indeed look like this as South
Africa said it did every ferry trip
would legally be entering into their
territory so South Africa / Namibia shot
some guns and everyone lived unhappily
ever after until around 2007 when the
four countries sat down did some
diplomacy and decided that Botswana did
indeed share this tiny 500 foot 150
meter border with Zambia which made
everyone happy except for this guy
what's more they decided to build a
bridge to link the two countries which
will be done in 2019 and will take this
big old curve in order to stay
decisively out of Namibia and Zimbabwe
territory now this tiny border does
qualify as the shortest overall border
between two countries
the total border distance to country
share but as I'm sure you can tell bass
being only halfway through this video
there are shorter single portions of
borders between two countries exclaves
territories of a country surrounded by
that of another are the key to shorter
border portions you can look at a place
like Baroness au the easiest way to
describe this town is like this this is
Belgium and this is the Netherlands it's
just a messy puzzle of exclaves the
smallest of which is this one this
strange Belgian portion of an empty
field has a border length of 800 feet or
250 meters making it a very short border
but still longer than that botswana
zambia border but remember that time
back at the end of the 19th century when
europe decided to be cool to just take
all of Africa then do you remember that
time 50 years later when Europe decided
to be cool just leave all of Africa
see look Spain's doing a great job of
leaving nice job Spain there you go
almost done
oh wait Spain you forgot a bit Spain
Spain what about these bits Spain half a
century later in 2000 now Spain still
holds these territories in Africa say
Utah and Mia are fairly well known as
they're decently sized cities but there
are more Spanish territories in North
Africa six islands just off the coast of
Morocco are controlled by Spain it's
worth noting all of the Spanish
territories in North Africa are disputed
territory with Morocco but each of them
is controlled by Spain in addition to
those six islands Spain has another bit
of territory in mainland Africa and
yonder VJs de la gomera
this tiny rock was once an island but a
huge storm in the 30s formed this thin
strip of sand that connected it with
mainland Africa the Spanish territory is
only inhabited by a few dozen Spanish
soldiers whose whole purpose is to sit
around and make sure the Moroccans don't
take it it's not that this peninsula is
strategically important at all anymore
it's just that the Spanish believe that
giving this territory to Morocco would
open the political floodgates for them
returning Ceuta and media to Morocco the
Spanish soldiers can't cross into
Morocco and Moroccans can't cross into
this bit of Spain so all supplies and
personnel are flown in by helicopter to
this heliport because this was formerly
an island the border just spans over the
sand strip which makes it exceptionally
short the distance from here to here is
just 278 feet or 85 metres and this is
therefore almost certainly the shortest
international border in the world you
probably don't need an advanced
understanding of geometry to figure out
how long this
order is but you probably do to answer
this how many times creator is the green
area than the blue area in this image if
you think you know the answer leave it
in a comment but if you don't you should
take brilliance geometry course it
teaches you the intuitive concepts
behind geometry so you don't just learn
how to answer questions you understand
it if geometry isn't your thing
brilliant also has tons of superbly
designed courses on topics like logic
statistics waves in light and more to
learn more about brilliant go to
brilliant org slash h AI and sign up for
free and also the first 200 people that
go to that link will get 20% off the
annual premium subscription